The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI), developed by Isabel Briggs Myers and her mother,
Katharine Cook Briggs, is a well known and widely used personality inventory based on the
psychological theories of Carl Gustav Jung. It is often used as a tool for discovering and
understanding different normal human personalities and can be utilized in a variety of
applications such as academic counseling, career development, conflict resolution, leadership
training and relationship counseling, just to cite a few. However, it should be noted that MBTI
is not a test as there are no right or wrong answers and it does not reveal everything about
oneself.
Based on Jung’s psychoanalytical theories, Myers deduced that there were four dichotomies
which made people differ from one another and referred to them as ‘type preferences’. The four
dichotomies and their brief descriptions are presented below:

• Extraversion or Introversion: Indicates whether people prefer to acquire their personal energy
from the outer world of people and activities, or from inner world of ideas and thoughts. E.g.,
extraverts prefer being in large group of people and introverts tend to take pleasure in quieter
activities.
• Sensing or INtuition: Describes how people take in information, whether they focus on what is
actual and real (factual-based) or prefer to interpret or apply meaning to what they see. E.g.,
people who prefer sensing is down-to-earth and more dependent on past experiences, whereas
people who prefer intuition are considered idealists and rely more on the future.
• Thinking or Feeling: Indicates how people prefer to make decisions, whether it is based on
logical thinking or influenced by their concerns for themselves and others. E.g., people who
prefer feeling over thinking are generally predominant in helpful professions such as
counselors and they pay close attention to other people’s needs. In addition, those who prefer
thinking may seek factual clarity in solving disputes.
• Judging or Perceiving: Describes the way you manage your life and how you deal with the
outer world, whether in an orderly manner or spontaneously. E.g., people who prefer judging
like to have everything in order and in a scheduled manner. On the contrary, people who
prefer perceiving are more unplanned and spontaneous in their lifestyle, including making
decisions.

Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)

Combinations based on these four categories of type preferences result in 16 different
personality types as shown below.
1. ISTJ – Introverted Sensing with Thinking
2. ISFJ – Introverted Sensing with Feeling
3. INFJ – Introverted Intuition with Feeling
4. INTJ – Introverted Intuition with Thinking
5. ISTP – Introverted Thinking with Sensing
6. ISFP – Introverted Feeling with Sensing
7. INFP – Introverted Feeling with Intuition
8. INTP – Introverted Thinking with Intuition
9. ESTP – Extraverted Sensing with Thinking
10. ESFP – Extraverted Sensing with Feeling
11. ENFP – Extraverted Intuition with Feeling
12. ENTP – Extraverted Intuition with Thinking
13. ESTJ – Extraverted Thinking with Sensing
14. ESFJ – Extraverted Feeling with Sensing
15. ENFJ – Extraverted Feeling with Intuition
16. ENTJ – Extraverted Thinking with Intuition

Below are some materials which might provide further understanding and insights to the Myers-
Briggs Type Indicator.